>> Brian Holt: So far, we've just been
selecting from one table at a time.
That's a frequent use case for databases,
but it is a relational database.
The relational there is for a reason,
it's because generally you have tables
that kind of correlate to each other.
So a good example of this would be,
I have clear tables.
I have artist, album, and track, right?
I have all the tracks that are in
the various different albums.
I have all the albums and all the artists
that made all of these albums.
Now you could basically go in and say,
here's this track from,
Led Zeppelin album, right?
And it has the artist, Led Zeppelin,
and it has the album of IV, and
it has the track of Black Dog,
or something like that, right?
The problem is what happens if
Led Zeppelin changes their name?
What if they're Prince, and they become
the artist formerly known as Prince?
You have to now go and
update every row in your database and
hopefully find all of them, right?
Particularly if they have a weird symbol
for a name now, which has never happened,
very appropriate to talk about
this in Minnesota, right?
Difficult, right?
And anyone that's done any amount of
trying to keep two things in sync,
knows that everything
always falls out of sync.
That's just the facts of life when
it comes to computer science.
So it's a bad idea.
Artists rename themselves,
albums get changed,
tracks get added, they get subtracted and
trying to keep all that stuff in sync
would be a nightmare to try and maintain.
That's why we have multiple tables.
We have artists.
We have albums and we have track, and
they're all separate from each other, but
they all relate to each
other using relational data.
That's kind of the point of a relational
database, if I'm being super honest.
>> Brian Holt: So
let's talk about one to one relationships.
One track belongs to one album, assuming
you're modeling it that way, right?
So you don't have a track
belonging to multiple albums,
it's just a track on an album.
Another example of that would
be members of a band, right?
So you have someone like Dave Grohl
that's been in a bunch of bands, right?
But he's has that
one-to-one relationship for
them or many-to-one, one-to-many,
something like that.
So I think this gets more concrete once
we start writing the queries here.
So I say SELECT * FROM Album,
and I'm just going to
LIMIT it to 5,
because I don't want to see a bunch.
Now let's just do .schema of Album.
So it has an album ID.
It has a title,
which you see these, right?
These are all, as you probably know,
these are ACDC songs.
So you have this artist ID that
corresponds to what artist wrote this,
and you have an album ID which corresponds
to which album this is, right?
As you probably guessed,
if you go into track they have a track ID,
an album ID, right?
But notice that there is
no artist ID on this, why?
Because the artist ID is on the album,
so that belongs at the album level.
You don't repeat it into the track level
because they all kind of correspond to
each other in kind of a chain, right?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so going back to Dave
Grohl and him belonging in multiple bands,
he was in Nirvana,
he was in the Foo Fighters, and
he's in another band called
Them Crooked Vultures.
That, where you have a band member, and
they can belong to multiple bands and
and bands can have multiple members.
This is called a many-to-many
relationship, right?
I always have to look this stuff up,
because it only matters
when I'm teaching it.
I never talk about this stuff
out loud like this, right?
Maybe another concrete way of showing
this as ingredients and recipes.
A recipe has many ingredients.
An ingredient can belong to many recipes.
They have a many-to-many
relationship,as opposed to a track,
a track just belongs to an album, right?
It doesn't belong to multiple albums.
It just belongs to one album.
Cool, okay, so
there are these one to one relationships.
Where you have two tables and
they join together on just one thing and
they only belong to each other.
I guess you could think of it like people
being married or something like that,
where in theory you're monogamous and
you only belong in to each other.
Normally you would just have
that exist in a table, right?
One, if it's one to one, then they can
just be the same row on the same table.
So typically, you don't model too
much in one to one relationships, but
that one to many relationship
with an album owning many tracks.
That very common,
the many to many exists like
an artist belonging to multiple bands,
that exists quite a bit as well.
Okay, so again, we talked about this.
What if a band renames themselves,
like On A Friday became Radiohead,
Prince became
The Artist Formerly Known As Prince.
The Quarrymen became the Beatles, right?
The nice thing is you have to update
one row to end all of a sudden,
it's fixed everywhere, right?
That's one of the advantages
of doing this.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so now I have these,
this is not a very useful thing for
me to pass back to a user.
They're not gonna know what album one is,
and
they're not gonna know what artist one is,
right?
Because they don't have any purview
into your data Database, so
you have to somehow join
these things together.
Now, we're gonna talk about joins.
We're gonna say select.
>> Brian Holt: Artist.name,
>> Brian Holt: And album.title.
>> Brian Holt: From album join artist on,
and
you're just gonna tell it what two
things correspond to each other?
How can I tell that this, artist and
this album meet up together,
they're gonna have some sort of
mutual ID typically, which they do.
We're gonna say
Album.ArtistId =
Artist.ArtistID.
Okay, and I'm just going to
put limit five there again.
And now, we get AC/DC, accept AC/DC,
Aerosmith, all that kind of stuff, right?
So we took back the information
that was in this album table, and
we joined it together with the one
that was in the artist table
to get one result set
based on both of those.
>> Brian Holt: And
let's just do .schema Artist,
.schema Album
>> Brian Holt: Notice
both of them have ArtistId and ArtistId,
and we are joining them here
together on ArtistId, right?
So that's how they're the database
knows to do that join correctly.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Questions about that,
does that make sense?
>> Brian Holt: Cool, as you might imagine,
this can make things a bit easier.
I'm just gonna copy and paste this
because this was not interesting for
me to type again.
>> Brian Holt: You can do what's
called a table alias, right?
So I called it Album a, and
now instead of having to type out album
every single time, I can just type a and
same Artist b, right?
So now, a.Artist.Id = b Artist.Id.
You'll see me almost always do that,
because typing out the whole
table name is just burdensome.
And then you can select b.Name, a.Title.
That's extremely helpful for you to know.
You can see that still works, okay?
>> Brian Holt: And
you can even use where in here,
which is quite nice as well.
So I'll give her that limit five, and
I'm gonna do where a.
What I call artist b.Name = 'Nirvana'.
>> Brian Holt: There you go.
>> Brian Holt: And now you can do
WHERE based on either table, right?
Cuz you can filter on either one of those.
So I could also do WHERE.Title things,
yeah, Title = Nevermind,
>> Brian Holt: Right?
And that works, okay as well,
you could even do and, right?
All that stuff all works together.
That's kind of the fun part about SQL
is all the pieces kind of compose
into each other.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
this one's a pretty cool one.
Let's look at this one here.
We use like.
So let's say we want to find
everything in our database where
the title includes live.
You can see there's quite a few live
albums in here, which is pretty cool.
You can join multiple tables together.
So let's do that.
So .shell clear.
Let's just do this in kind
of my scratchpad here,
I think this is going to be easier.
>> Brian Holt: And
I want to change language mode SQL.
SELECT, let's just.
>> Brian Holt: So artist is probably not
arduous enough for me to shorten it,
or shouldn't be, but
I'm still gonna do it anyway.
So I'm gonna say, call it ar,
ar.Name and I'll call album al.
I try and give them
somewhat,correlative names, right?
Instead of just ABCD, I see a bunch
of people that do that as well.
It just helps me read it later.
>> Brian Holt: Title and do T for
track name from album.
>> Brian Holt: And
then we're going to JOIN Artist.
I have to call this al,
Artist ar ON al.ArtistId,
>> Brian Holt: = ar.ArtistId.
JOIN, frequently,
I will put multiple spaces
between these cuz then
it's even easier to read.
Each individual kind of JOIN clause.
Track t ON
t.AlbumId =
al.AlbumId.
And then here you could
just give it all of it, but
I think there's 3,500 tracks in this
database, so it's a pretty big result set.
So you can just ask for one album,
or something like that.
W're gonna do the Led Zeppelin album.
al.Title = 'IV'.
>> Brian Holt: And you can see why I do
this in VS Code rather than just directly
into the CLI.
This is a lot easier to read.
I have all of my syntax
highlighting I can click.
>> Brian Holt: And I just copy and
paste it over here.
And you can see there, I get
everything in the Led Zeppelin album.
And I get all the tracks back as well,
which is pretty cool.
>> Brian Holt: Pretty cool, right?
I think it's cool.
>> Brian Holt: And you can keep going.
I actually found out you can go 64 times.
You can do 64 joins.
I am not telling you should do 64 joins,
but in SQLite,
it is only possible to
join 64 tables at a time.
And I found out it's cuz they
have a 8 byte registry for
those various different tables,
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
you can just keep going.
So this one has four.
Let's just go copy and paste it.
Which is this one.
>> Brian Holt: So this is all the Foo
Fighter albums and all of their genres,
cuz we pulled it out of genre ID as well.
And you can see some of them they
classify as alternative and punk,
some of them they classify as rock.
I think that's the only two
that they have in there.